= Required Software =

We use [http://www.lighttpd.net/ lighttpd] as web server and this is the one that we recommend. Previously we also tried Microsoft IIS and Apache but we found that lighttpd is easier to install and it has better support for [http://www.fastcgi.com/drupal/ FastCGI].

The client side of the web applications is written using [http://code.google.com/intl/bg-BG/webtoolkit/ Google Web Toolkit] which you also need to download and install.

= Compilation =

The first step in the compilation is to compile the PGF service. This is service on the server side which communicates via the web server using FastCGI as protocol. It provides services like parsing, linearization and translation. It is written in Haskell and it could be compiled in the usual way using Cabal. The source code is located in subdirectory src/server. The compilation is in three simple steps:

{{{
runghc Setup.hs configure
runghc Setup.hs build
runghc Setup.hs install
}}}

For this I assume that you already have installed the Haskell compiler GHC and four third party libraries:

{{{
cgi >= 3001.1.7.0,
fastcgi >= 3001.0.2.1,
json >= 0.3.3,
utf8-string >= 0.3.1.1
}}}

The simplest way to obtain them is to go to http://hackage.haskell.org

Once you have compiled the PGF service you should compile the client side of also. There are two main applications which are located in subdirectory src/server/gwt. There are two shell scripts:

{{{
./Translate-compile
./Fridge-compile
}}}

which compile the source of those applications. You must look at the beginning of the scripts, there are two environment variables that have to be set to the installation location of Google Web Toolkit. There is an example in the scripts.

= Running =

When you have everything in place you can try to run the applications. From directory src/server you run:

{{{
/usr/sbin/lighttpd -D -f lighttpd.conf
}}}

This will start the web server. After that you could try to open:

{{{
http://localhost:41296/translate
}}}
or
{{{
http://localhost:41296/fridge
}}}
in any web browser